# milk_was_a_bad_choice

For my second piece Milk Was a Bad Choice – a title inspired by the iconic Anchorman line – I wanted to explore the aesthetic ideals of texture and emergence. The piece is inherently minimalist, beginning with nothing but the downward vertical motion of four white ellipses which descend to the bottom of the screen, creating the effect of the bars of a jail cell. Furthermore, there is a kind of net effect created by the beginning point of the top left corner where the user is never able to escape the black lines which extend and proliferate from this corner. As the user moves around the screen, these black lines follow his movements, covering the initially white screen with blackness. If the user moves the mouse slowly, the lines become denser, and the blackness becomes thicker. This ‘net’, in tandem with the ‘jailbars’, further evokes a sense of ‘trappedness’ – a visual representation of the kind of crippling limitation I felt through my lack of technological nous at the time. The user can also manipulate the speed of the four ellipses by pressing the right arrow (faster) or left arrow (slower) until they, in fact, cease their motion or even reverse the vertical flow (downward -> upward motion) of the ‘jailbars’. When the jailbars are moving rapidly, the trails they leave behind them naturally shift from black  to white, allowing the user to define the predominant theme of colours and textures emergent across the canvas. Finally, when the user clicks the mouse, the cartoon image of a red-orange lizard appears, contributing a striking aesthetic contrast to the black and white textures of the piece.

https://benjaminroith.github.io/milk_was_a_bad_choice/

[273]
